John: Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday.
So Bill Gates is encouraging people to make
videos about what it means to be human.
There's actually a contest, you can win money
and stuff.
Link in the dooblydoo.
But as it happens over the last 3 years I've
been thinking a lot about this question because
I've been trying to write a novel about what
it means to be human and how we define personhood
and why those definitions matter.
I've also been writing a lot about tortoises,
but that's less directly relevant here.
All right, so first off I find all of the,
like, biological definitions of humanness
completely uninteresting because we all kind
of just know that there's something to personhood
other than just all being members of the same
species.
Like, we know this partly because most of
us believe that humans have a seemingly unique
consciousness or soul or whatever.
But we also know that personhood is more than
just a species category because we can constantly
see people denying other people's humanity
even though we're all members of the same
species.
This happens at a macro level when governments,
for instance, refuse to acknowledge the very
existence of certain ethnic minorities.
And it happens on a micro level every time
I dehumanize someone by imagining them as
less complex than myself.
Like, it's easy for me to understand that
I contain multitudes, but rather than understanding
that of other people, too often I imagine
them as merely sick or merely poor or merely
'them' to some 'us' that includes me.
Hank, for me at least, the deeper I dig, the
harder it becomes to understand what makes
people, people.
For instance, I often hear that what makes
us human is that we can share stories across
generations.
And I do absolutely believe in the power of
narrative, but there are many people who can't
hear or tell stories, like people with certain
intellectual disabilities, for instance.
And yet, they are still people.
Or we often associate reading and writing
with humanness, but there are many people
who can't read or write, and often they're
marginalized people, the people whose humanity
most needs to be acknowledged.
The same goes for many definitions of humanness:
they often exclude the poorest or the sickest
or the most oppressed.
And those narrow definitions of humanness
can be very dangerous.
Like one dramatic example is that for many
centuries, Europeans and white Americans denied
the essential humanity of black people as
a justification for chattel slavery.
But that's not just a problem of history,
like, to be treated as a full human in the
world today, you may need not just a human
body and a human spirit but also an ID card
attesting to a particularly citizenship.
And wealth and race and sex and class and
many other things can all factor into how
human the world treats you.
So what can we say inclusively of humans?
Well, we tend to be capable of empathy and
collaboration and hope.
But in these respects I don't think we're
unique among animals.
It seems to me that to get even remotely universal
and yet specific, we have to be very weirdly
careful with our wording, like: when able
to access and comprehend the teachings of
our ancestors, we tend to value them.
Here's what I really believe Hank: I believe
that we confer personhood upon each other
through empathy and compassion and trust.
Like, stuck inside the prison of my own consciousness,
I have no way of independently verifying that
other people even are really human.
Like, it's possible that everyone else is
just a super realistic humanoid robot, and
I am the only actual feeling human on earth,
but I choose not to believe that.
I believe that when we acknowledge each other's
consciousness and complexity, we lead better
lives and feel less alone in our grief and
our joy.
Basically I believe that we're human because
we believe in each other's humanness, and
because we can listen, and we can work together
to alleviate each other's suffering.
And in that sense, I guess being human is
both something that we are and something that
we must always aspire to be.
Now of course, I might be wrong.
I often am.
That's quite human as well I think.
So Hank, nerdfighters, I'm very interested
in knowing what you think it means to be human.
Let's continue to conversation in comments
or via the link below.
Hank, I will see you on Friday.